tw901: Add helm fullnode guide (#3426)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/run-arbitrum-node/run-full-node-with-helm.mdx

---
title: 'How to run a full node with Helm on Kubernetes'
sidebar_label: 'Run a full node (Helm)'
description: 'Deploy an Arbitrum chain full node on Kubernetes with the community Helm chart, including memory configuration, monitoring, log signals, and network egress.'

> user_story: 'As a node operator, I want to deploy and reliably operate an Arbitrum chain full node on Kubernetes using the community Helm chart.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user_story: 'As a node operator, I want to deploy and reliably operate an full node for an Arbitrum chain on Kubernetes using the community Helm chart.'
```

content_type: how-to
author: 'Jason-W123'
sme: 'Jason-W123'
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> This guide shows how to deploy a full node for an Arbitrum chain on Kubernetes using the [community Helm chart](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts/tree/main/charts/nitro). It applies to any Arbitrum chain — [Arbitrum One](https://arbitrum.io), Nova, Sepolia, and your own Arbitrum chain — and covers installation, memory configuration, first sync from a snapshot, monitoring, the log signals that distinguish a healthy node from a broken one, and the outbound endpoints to allow through a firewall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows how to deploy a full node for an Arbitrum chain on Kubernetes using the [community Helm chart](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts/tree/main/charts/nitro). It applies to any Arbitrum chain—[Arbitrum One](https://arbitrum.io), Nova, Sepolia, and your own Arbitrum chain—and covers installation, memory configuration, first sync from a snapshot, monitoring, the log signals that distinguish a healthy node from a broken one, and the outbound endpoints to allow through a firewall.
```

The chart's defaults target Arbitrum One, so Arbitrum One is used as the worked example throughout. Each step notes what changes for other chains.

<VanillaAdmonition type="info">

If you want to run a node with Docker instead of Kubernetes, see [How to run a full node for an Arbitrum chain](/run-arbitrum-node/02-run-full-node.mdx). This page assumes you've reviewed the [Start here](/run-arbitrum-node/start-here.mdx) page, which explains the RPC endpoints, Nitro version, and database snapshots required to run a node.

</VanillaAdmonition>

## Prerequisites

> - **Parent chain access:** an execution RPC endpoint for the chain's parent. For Arbitrum One, Nova, and Sepolia the parent is Ethereum, so you also need an **L1 beacon/blob** endpoint (see [L1 Ethereum RPC providers](/run-arbitrum-node/04-l1-ethereum-beacon-chain-rpc-providers.mdx)). For an Arbitrum chain whose parent is another chain, supply that parent chain's RPC; a beacon endpoint is only required when the chain posts blobs to its parent chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Parent chain access:** an execution RPC endpoint for the chain's parent. For Arbitrum One, Nova, and Sepolia, the parent is Ethereum, so you also need an **L1 beacon/blob** endpoint (see [L1 Ethereum RPC providers](/run-arbitrum-node/04-l1-ethereum-beacon-chain-rpc-providers.mdx)). For an Arbitrum chain whose parent is another chain, use the RPC of that parent chain; a beacon endpoint is required only when the chain posts blobs to its parent chain.
```

- **Cluster:** Kubernetes with Helm installed.

> - **Disk:** size storage for the chain you're running. A node's database size varies widely from chain to chain and grows over time, so check the expected size with your chain operator before provisioning (for Arbitrum One it runs to multiple TB). Raise the chart's default `persistence.size` (`500Gi`) accordingly, and allow roughly 2× the snapshot size of additional temporary disk for extraction on the first run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Disk:** size storage for the chain you're running. A node's database size varies widely from chain to chain and grows over time, so check the expected size with your chain operator before provisioning (for Arbitrum One, it runs to multiple TB). Raise the chart's default `persistence.size` (`500Gi`) accordingly, and allow roughly 2× the snapshot size for an additional temporary disk for extraction on the first run.
```

## Step 1: Deploy with Helm

> First add the chart repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, add the chart repo:
```

```yaml
# values-mychain.yaml
configmap:
  data:
    parent-chain:
      id: <PARENT_CHAIN_ID>
      connection:
        url: <PARENT_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
    chain:
      id: <YOUR_CHAIN_ID>
      name: <YOUR_CHAIN_NAME>
      info-json: '<your chain info JSON>'
    execution:
      forwarding-target: <SEQUENCER_ENDPOINT_URL>
    node:
      feed:
        input:
          url: <SEQUENCER_FEED_URL>
```

```shell
helm install mychain-fullnode offchainlabs/nitro -f values-mychain.yaml
```

If the parent chain is Ethereum, also set `configmap.data.parent-chain.blob-client.beacon-url`. AnyTrust chains additionally need a Data Availability configuration (`node.da.anytrust.*`, including a `rest-aggregator`); see [Data Availability](/run-arbitrum-node/data-availability.mdx). The older `node.data-availability.*` flags still work but are deprecated in Nitro and will be removed in a future release.

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

<VanillaAdmonition type="caution" title="Defaults that commonly trip up operators">

> - **Don't copy the chart README's init example verbatim.** It uses `nitro-genesis.tar`, which syncs from genesis — huge and slow on a chain with a long history such as Arbitrum One. Where a pruned snapshot exists, prefer `configmap.data.init.latest=pruned` (default base `https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Don't copy the chart README's init example verbatim.** It uses `nitro-genesis.tar`, which syncs from genesis — a huge, slow process on a chain with a long history, such as Arbitrum One. Where a pruned snapshot exists, prefer `configmap.data.init.latest=pruned` (default base `https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/`).
```

- **The chart changes the RPC path prefix.** Defaults are `http.rpcprefix=/rpc` and `ws.rpcprefix=/ws`, so RPC is served at `http://host:8547/rpc`, not vanilla Nitro's `/`. Clients that omit `/rpc` get a 404.
- **Metrics are off by default.** Enable `configmap.data.metrics=true` and `serviceMonitor.enabled=true` to scrape them (see [Step 4](#step-4-enable-monitoring)).

</VanillaAdmonition>

## Step 2: Configure memory management (optional)

For a containerized node, set a memory limit so the chart can size the Go runtime. This is optional but recommended, and applies to every chain:

> - **`resources.limits.memory`** — set this to activate the chart's automatic `GOMEMLIMIT`. When a memory limit is present, the chart derives `GOMEMLIMIT` from it (`env.nitro.goMemLimit`, on by default — it subtracts an estimate of non-Go memory and applies a `0.9` multiplier).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`resources.limits.memory`** — set this to activate the chart's automatic `GOMEMLIMIT`. When a memory limit is present, the chart derives `GOMEMLIMIT` from it (`env.nitro.goMemLimit`, on by default—it subtracts an estimate of non-Go memory and applies a `0.9` multiplier).
```

- **`MALLOC_ARENA_MAX=2`** — already set by the chart by default (`env.nitro.mallocArenaMax`, `enabled: true`, `value: 2`), so you don't normally need to configure it. Adjust or disable it under `env.nitro.mallocArenaMax` if needed.
- **`node.resource-mgmt.mem-free-limit`** (optional) — an RPC memory throttle that's disabled by default. Recommended if you expose this node as a public RPC.

To set any other environment variable, use `extraEnv`, whose entries are spliced directly into the pod's `env`:

```yaml
extraEnv:
  - name: SOME_VAR
    value: 'value'
```

For the allocator details, the `GOMEMLIMIT` formula, and `MALLOC_ARENA_MAX`, see the [memory management deep-dive](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/05-nitro-memory-management.mdx) and the [memory management section](/run-arbitrum-node/02-run-full-node.mdx#memory-management) of the Docker full-node guide.

## Step 3: First sync from a snapshot

Whether a snapshot is required depends on the chain:

> - **Arbitrum One** requires a snapshot on the first run because of its Classic-era history. Use `configmap.data.init.latest=pruned`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Arbitrum One** requires a snapshot during the first run due to its Classic-era history. Use `configmap.data.init.latest=pruned`.
```

- **Nova and Sepolia** have published snapshots that speed up the initial sync but aren't strictly required.
- **Your Arbitrum chain** typically syncs from genesis with no snapshot, unless you provide one via `init.url`.

When using a snapshot, the default base is `https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/`. Initial sync takes a while. The init flag is ignored once a database already exists, so it's safe to leave it in place across restarts. Confirm the current snapshot type and download details in the [Nitro database snapshots](/run-arbitrum-node/nitro/03-nitro-database-snapshots.mdx) guide.

## Step 4: Enable monitoring

Turn on metrics and a `ServiceMonitor` so Prometheus can scrape the node:

```shell
helm upgrade <my-release> offchainlabs/nitro \
  --reuse-values \
  --set configmap.data.metrics=true \
  --set serviceMonitor.enabled=true
```

Once enabled, the node exposes Prometheus metrics at `http://<pod>:6070/debug/metrics/prometheus` — the metrics server binds to `0.0.0.0:6070` by default (`configmap.data.metrics-server.port`), and the `ServiceMonitor` scrapes that port and path (`serviceMonitor.path` defaults to `/debug/metrics/prometheus`).

### Grafana dashboard

> The repository's README points to the [Releases page](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts/releases) for the Grafana dashboard. If a release doesn't attach the dashboard JSON, pull the last published copy from the repository's git history and import it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The repository’s README points to the Grafana dashboard's [Releases page](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts/releases). If a release doesn't attach the dashboard JSON, pull the last published copy from the repository's git history and import it:
```

```shell
git clone https://github.com/OffchainLabs/community-helm-charts
git -C community-helm-charts show 430a2cc~1:operations/grafana/dashboards/overview.json > overview.json
```

Then in Grafana, go to **Dashboards → Import** and paste `overview.json`.

<VanillaAdmonition type="caution">

> This exported dashboard has no `__inputs` datasource prompt, and its `Source` variable is hard-pinned to an internal Mimir UID. After importing, you **must** repoint the `Source` variable to your own Prometheus, or every panel reads "No data." Then set `nitronodejob` to this node's scrape job, and leave `sequencerjob`, `validatorjob`, and `relayjob` empty so only the full-node rows render.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This exported dashboard has no `__inputs` datasource prompt, and its `Source` variable is hard-pinned to an internal Mimir UID. After importing, you **must** repoint the `Source` variable to your own Prometheus instance, or every panel will read "No data." Then set `nitronodejob` to this node's scrape job, and leave `sequencerjob`, `validatorjob`, and `relayjob` empty so only the full-node rows render.
```

WARN  error forwarding transaction to a backup target        target=https://arb1-sequencer-fallback-1.arbitrum.io/rpc  pos=1 total targets=6  err="timeout exceeded"
ERROR Failed to publish transaction to any of the forwarding targets   numTargets=6

# (b) SEQUENCER RETURNS A BUSINESS ERROR (non-connection) — logged once, NOT escalated, returned to caller
WARN  error forwarding transaction trying different target  current target=https://arb1-sequencer.arbitrum.io/rpc  err="nonce too low: address 0x..., tx: 5 state: 7"
#   (no "Failed to publish..." line follows — the error is handed straight back to the RPC client)

# (c) MEMORY 429 THROTTLING — rejected BEFORE it reaches the forwarder; no per-request log line.
#     The signals are an HTTP 429 to the client and an increment of arb/rpc/limitcheck/failure.
INFO  Cgroups v2 detected, enabling memory limit RPC throttling     # startup, confirms throttling is active
ERROR Error checking memory limit  err=...  checker=CgroupsMemoryLimitChecker   # only if the cgroup read fails
```

## Network egress allowlist

> A full node reaches out to a fixed set of endpoints. If you run on a cloud provider, outbound traffic is often restricted by default, so you'll likely need to allow these destinations explicitly in your cloud security group or firewall rules (for example, AWS security groups, GCP firewall rules, or an egress `NetworkPolicy`). The specific hostnames depend on the chain: for DAO-governed networks they come from the chain's built-in chain info, and for your own Arbitrum chain they come from the `chain.info-json`, `execution.forwarding-target`, and feed URLs you configure. The categories are the same across chains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full node reaches out to a fixed set of endpoints. If you run on a cloud provider, outbound traffic is often restricted by default, so you'll likely need to allow these destinations explicitly in your cloud security group or firewall rules (for example, AWS security groups, GCP firewall rules, or an egress `NetworkPolicy`). The specific hostnames depend on the chain: for DAO-governed networks, they come from the chain's built-in chain info, and for your own Arbitrum chain, they come from the `chain.info-json`, `execution.forwarding-target`, and feed URLs you configure. The categories are the same across chains:
```

| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Sequencer (tx forwarding) | `https://arb1-sequencer.arbitrum.io/rpc`                                                       |
| Sequencer fallbacks       | `https://arb1-sequencer-fallback-{1..5}.arbitrum.io/rpc`                                       |
| Sequencer feed (primary)  | `wss://arb1-feed.arbitrum.io/feed`                                                             |
| Feed fallbacks / delayed  | `wss://arb1-delayed-feed.arbitrum.io/feed`, `wss://arb1-feed-fallback-{1..5}.arbitrum.io/feed` |
| Block metadata            | `https://arb1.arbitrum.io/rpc`                                                                 |
| DB snapshot               | `https://snapshot.arbitrum.foundation/`                                                        |
| Parent chain              | Your Ethereum L1 execution RPC + L1 beacon/blob endpoint                                       |

<VanillaAdmonition type="caution" title="Firewall egress">

> For a default Arbitrum One full node, allow `*.arbitrum.io` (443 HTTPS + WSS), `snapshot.arbitrum.foundation` (443, init only), and your own L1 RPC + beacon hosts. For other chains, allow that chain's sequencer, feed, and snapshot hosts plus your parent-chain endpoints. **Additional outbound paths exist only if you enable them:** the version alerter (off by default, queries an operator-set endpoint), the classic redirect, or DA/REST endpoints (AnyTrust chains such as Nova).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a default Arbitrum One full node, allow `*.arbitrum.io` (443 HTTPS + WSS), `snapshot.arbitrum.foundation` (443, init only), and your own L1 RPC + beacon hosts. For other chains, allow that chain's sequencer, feed, and snapshot hosts, plus your parent-chain endpoints. **Additional outbound paths exist only if you enable them:** the version alerter (off by default, queries an operator-set endpoint), the classic redirect, or DA/REST endpoints (AnyTrust chains such as Nova).
```
